# Bugpocalypse

# My Portfolio #
https://02029js.wixsite.com/jasonhahne

# About the Game #
Bugpocalypse is an action-roguelike game set in a post-apocalypse world where bugs got bigger. Players can choose the exterminator they want to play and the weapon that they want. You can get new weapons or passive items and upgrade them by killing bugs.

# How I Made Bugpocalypse #
One day in June 2024, I had the idea of making a multiplayer action-roguelike game where players go against each other. Think of it like player vs player vs environment. When I searched up in various sites to see if there was any game like that, I found out that there wasn't any game with this idea. So, I decided to make a game with this idea on my own. First, I opened up Unity which is a cross-platform game engine, and started making top-down player movement. After that, I wrote a script to make enemies move toward the player. Then I worked on player and enemy stats, these stats include values like their health, movement speed, etc. While working on enemy stats, I made enemies drop exp that players can collect to upgrade weapons and passive items when they die. After that, I worked on various weapons that players can use. There are mainly 4 types of weapons in Bugpocalypse; Area of Effect, Aura, Projectile, and Turret. When I was working on these weapons, I had the idea of giving upgrade options to players. For other action-roguelike games, they usually give one upgrade option for each weapon. However, I thought it would be nice to have multiple upgrade options for each weapon since it would give more freedom to players as players would be able to choose which upgrade for certain weapons would be better. Then, I worked on passive items, enemy spawning, etc. Working on passive items was easy because all I had to was edit the values of the player stat with the values inside scriptable objects (storage containing certain data). For spawning enemies, I also used scriptable objects to store different kinds of waves and used those data to spawn enemies. After finishing the programming part of development, I needed to work on the art of the game. However, there was a problem. The problem was that I didn't know how to do animations. So, I spent a little time learning the basics of animation. After finishing learning the animation, I started to work on the art of characters, enemies, and weapons. I had to scrap some drawings since they didn't look that good, but I managed to draw drawings that looked good. Then, I changed the sprites of characters, enemies, etc. to the drawings that I drew. While changing the sprites of characters, I had the idea of letting the players choose their starting weapon. I thought this was a good idea since players can choose the character that they want to play and weapon that they want to start with. So, I changed the UI in the character selection menu to let players choose the starting weapon. With that finished, Bugpocalypse was almost done as all I needed to do was putting in music and sound effects. After a while, I managed to put in all the music and sound effects and finished making Bugpocalypse. I would do updates on this game in the future; adding new characters, new enemies, etc.
